hey everyone welcome back for the second
uh system design problem breakdown the
first one was Ticket Master um the
reception to that was really really
positive that was encouraging to be
honest I didn't know if I wanted to make
these YouTube videos you all really
enjoyed that first one there were some
great comments so going to try to keep
these rolling um I can't make any
commitments but maybe once every two
weeks or so at least in the near term
you should see a new one so the one that
we're going to do today is we're going
to design Uber so this is the the
hardest or the most interesting in my
opinion of the proxim search problems if
you can do this one then you can
probably do find my friends Yelp Etc it
has a lot of the the same common pieces
and this is asked a ton uh at most of
the top companies frankly notably it's
Asic Google and meta um so I think it's
a great one for us to practice now a bit
about me as a refresher I spent five
years at meta I was an interviewer and a
staff engineer there and I'm now the
co-founder of hello interview and so
hello interview is a site that helps
candidates prepare for upcoming
interviews largely via mock with senior
F engineers and managers like myself and
so I've asked this question well over 50
times and I know exactly where
candidates of all level from mid-level
up to senior director or staff and
principal uh do well and where they tend
to get tripped up so we're going to walk
through this as if it's a real interview
um but I may periodically interject or I
will periodically interject with some
tips or Frameworks and really sharing
that perspective uh from a senior
interviewer lastly if if videos aren't
your thing I've written this detailed
breakdown to this problem here on hello
interview.com so you can come over I'll
link it in the comments and read this if
you prefer uh we also have a handful of
other breakdowns to common problems and
this list is continuing to grow so come
over here and check it out all right
without further Ado let's get into
it okay first things first let's touch
on the road map that we're going to
follow throughout this video as well as
the road map that I recommend that you
follow for any of your system designing
interviews particularly those for which
you're designing a user facing product
like design Uber so the first thing
we're going to do is we're going to go
over the requirements of the system this
is both the functional requirements the
features of the system as well as the
non-functional requirements so the
qualities of the system we're then going
to touch on the core entities in the API
core entities is similar to what you may
be thinking in terms of data model but
it's really what are the objects that
are exchanged and persisted in my system
and then the API will use those objects
in order to expose the user facing
apis um that allow you to satisfy your
functional requirements or the features
of the system next we'll sketch out a
highle design the goal of this highle
design is simply to satisfy the core
functional requirements of the system it
would be simple just to satisfy those
core features and then lastly we'll go
into detail in some deep Dives and the
goal of the deep Dives is to make sure
that our system satisfies all of our
nonfunctional requirements so this is
the road map that we're going to
follow
all right so the very first thing that
you're going to do is you're going to
write down the functional requirements
of the system the functional
requirements as I mentioned a moment ago
are the core features of the system so
these are often like users should be
able to statements now ideally the
interviewer has chosen a system that
you've used before and you know pretty
well that would be amazing that would
make this a lot easier in the case that
they didn't you'll need to ask a handful
of questions to try to understand that
system now I'm going to assume that most
of us know Uber pretty well um and it's
certainly the case the case that I do so
the core requirements of the system are
that users should be able to input a
start
location and a
destination and get an estimated
fair so this is what happens at the very
beginning when you open up your Uber app
you end up saying where you want to go
it knows where you are and it gives you
a bunch of price estimates right it says
that for Uber X this will cost you $32
for Uber XL this will cost you XYZ now
I'm actually going to Mark out of scope
multiple car types bad typing uh
multiple car types and we're just going
to do Uber X for example so just one
estimate and then the next thing once
you get that estimate is that user
should be able to request a ride to be
matched with a nearby available driver
in real real time so users should be
able to request a ride based on an
estimate cool and then the last thing is
that drivers need to be able to accept
that ride request and then ultimately
navigate to the user's location and
finally to the user's destination so
drivers should be able to
accept deny a
request and navigate to pick up SL
dropoff
now there's different versions of an
Uber system design question in some
versions maybe you don't have the
estimated Fair part maybe you focus more
on the actual
navigation um this is typically where I
lead candidates it's what I think is the
most interesting but know that it's not
all inclusive so maybe you want to take
some moments to yourself to think about
some additional functional requirements
maybe and how you'd additionally uh
include those in the high Lev design
that we'll get to later so you saw that
I added one thing out of scope here it's
good to clarify some additional features
that you might think of but you're
clearly not going to do um it's really
important that you stay focused in a
system design interview they move really
quickly so I recommend that you focus in
on at most those three core features of
a system and everything else you put out
of scope uh so for example some other
things that I could think of is ratings
for drivers and writers I'm not going to
handle that that's going to be out of
scope um some other things as like
schedule a ride and Advance right this
is showing my product thinking as an
interviewer or as a candidate but
showing clearly that I can prioritize
and focus on what matters so we'll keep
it there the next thing that we do is
our non-functional
requirements so the non-functional
requirements are the qualities of the
system these are typically like the Iles
so it's scalability availability
Integrity these sorts of things now most
candidates make the mistake of a rushing
through their non-functional
requirements and B just writing down
some of those buzzwords and I can tell
you right now that's both not useful and
it doesn't help you with the design
later on so for all candidates but
particularly senior and staff candidates
the non-functional requirements are
incredibly important this is what's
going to dictate your deep Dives later
on so you want to make sure that you a
identify the qualities that are unique
and relevant to this system what makes
this system challenging what makes it
different difficult and then B that
you're able to put them in the context
of this system and C ideally quantify
them if possible so for example what do
we care about in this system well we
care about low latency as we do in most
systems but in the context of uber it's
low latency matching and we can quantify
that so we can say maybe less than 1
minute to match or failure and so that
failure would just be you know we give
the user are message thing that there's
no available drivers in the area
um now what else is important we can
consider cap theorem here so do we
prefer consistency or availability given
that partition tolerance is a must now
in this case we actually really care
about
consistency uh but specifically
consistency of matching so we want to
make sure that any given ride is only
ever matched to One driver so ride to
driver is one to one right we want to
make sure that there are multiple
drivers who get the same ride and for
that reason consistency is going to be
incredibly important um now on the other
hand we do still care about availability
we care about availability basically
everything outside of matching so highly
available outside the
matching and this means that we're going
to minimize downtime the system is going
to be consistently available reliable we
can process requests 24/7 this is going
to be an important component of our
system uh and then lastly we should be
able to handle high throughput but again
putting that in the context of our
system this is in surges for peak hours
or special events uh like if you know a
a football game or the Taylor Swift
concert just got out you're going to
have massive surges there and so we can
try to quantify what our surges might be
and given that we're talking about
stadiums or New Year's Eve surges are
probably on the order of hundreds of
thousands
of requests within a given region all
right
perfect and then additionally we can
consider some out of
scope here as
well some additional things that are
always worth considering are gdpr and
user
privacy but we're not going to go into
it uh in this design certainly not uh
resilience and handling system failures
frankly we may touch on that a bit but
it's not going to be the the primary
importance of the design monitoring
always a good thing to have in any
design uh but we're not going to have it
in ours no monitoring logging alerting
Etc and then you know deployment cicd
pipelines those are other things that
would be great in any design but aren't
going to be the focus of our system so
now we have a really clear understanding
of the system that we're going to build
both the core features being able to get
Fair estimates request of ride match
them and allow drivers to accept or deny
those requests as well as the
non-functional requirements the
importancy of low latency matching
consistency of matching high
availability outside of the matching
context and the ability to handle high
throughput so from here we can move on
to our core entities in our
API all right before we move on to the
core entities there's one thing I want
to call out and that's that some viewers
might have realized that we didn't do
back of the envelope estimation
and you're right so my opinion here is
that in conducting so many of these the
back of the envelope estimations
particularly early on in the design like
right now uh are almost always a waste
of time so candidates estimate daily
active users bandwidth storage and at
the end of those estimations they look
at their numbers and they go okay so
it's a lot and then they move on and at
most they came to the conclusion that
it's a scaled system that's going to
need to be horizontally scaled going to
need to use things like maybe S3
whatever it may
um but they knew that they knew that
before they started the calculations so
I learned nothing about the candidate
during that they burned valuable time
and what usually just a 35 minute
interview when you exclude uh
pleasantries and time for questions at
the end so my opinion here is that
candidates should forgo the back of the
envelope estimations immediately after
the non-functional requirements and only
do them if the result of the
calculations is going to directly
influence the design so here's how I
suggest you approach that when you
finish nonfunctional requirements say
this to the interviewer say I know a lot
of candidates do back of the envelope
estimations at this point um it's my
preference that I forego them for now
and that instead I do estimations during
my high level design if there are some
calculations that I need to do for which
the result will have a direct influence
on my design is it okay with you and
99.9% of interviewers will say yes
that's great you might have 1% of
weirdos who say no in which case no
worries you you'll do your estimations
then to satisfy them but that's my
strong recommendation when it comes to
back of the envelope estimations now
monologue aside the next thing that we
do here is we jump into the core
entities and so you may be wondering to
yourself why does he keep saying core
entities as opposed to data schema or
data model as you're probably more
accustomed to and the reason is I found
that most candidates and myself when I'm
an interviewer I don't know the full
data schema at this point I don't know
all the fields and all of the columns
it's far too early in the design but I
can sketch out what my core entities are
What are the entities that are being
persisted this usually Maps one to one
with the tables or the collections that
you're going to have so often times I'll
document the entire schema in the full
columns as I'm going in my high level
design as you'll see me do here today
and I'll start here instead by just
bulleting those core entities and these
core entities are going to be useful to
inform my API we'll see that here in a
sec so what are the core entities for
something like uber well I'm going to
have a ride object of course I'm going
to have a driver I'm going to have a
riter and then this one's maybe less
obvious I'm going to have a location
entity and this location entity is going
to be responsible for having the most
upto-date location of all of my drivers
so that I can quickly match them based
on proximity and we'll see of course how
that works in the highle
design and so now we move on next to the
API and the api's goal is really simple
people people kind of overthink this or
make this more complicated than it needs
to be we're going to use our core
entities in order to go one by one
satisfying our functional requirements
so we might have one we might have many
apis per requirement but we're going to
look at those one by one and make sure
that we have the a full set of apis in
order to meet them so for example the
very first one that we have here is to
get a fair estimate and so what this is
going to do is it's going to request the
ETA and the price of a ride and it's
going to persist those in our database
and I'm going to choose to instead of
use a separate entity just create a ride
entity with an ETA and a price and that
ride entity is something that we can
then continue to update if ultimately
they decide to request the ride and
match Etc if they don't we have some
excess data laying around but it'll be
great for analytics to know what people
are requesting and ultimately not
choosing um so this API is going to be a
post because we're going to be creating
new data I'm going to have bide Fair
estimate and it's going to return a
partial ride and I use partial here this
is just typescript not you can use
whatever you want this is not a
requirement for the interview it
basically just says we're going to
return part of the right entity uh
specifically the parts that I'm
interested in are the ID the right ID
the ETA and the price and I might
mention that verbally in the interview
you might even write it down and the
things that's going to be passed into
the body here are just going to be the
source and the destination basically
where am I coming from and where do I
want to go so we're exchanging our core
entities in order to satisfy our first
functional requirement
easy now let's move on to the next
functional requirement which was user
should be able to request a ride based
on an estimate so now given that
estimate that was just returned to us we
should be able to request a ride I'm
going to use patch since we're going to
be updating that same row this could
also be put it doesn't matter too much I
wouldn't get caught up here but I'm
going to request a ride and that's going
to take in the ride ID that was returned
here right so that ride that we
persisted that we made an estimate 4
that has a source in a destination
already I'm now going to request that I
get matched with a driver and I actually
want to want to go on that ride and it's
going to take in a ride ID and since
this operation is going to be
asynchronous we talked about it taking
you know up to a minute to match with
the driver this just going to return you
know a 200 or status code maybe a 400 in
case of failure
um and it's going to happen
asynchronously great um now the other
thing to consider is that the actual
matching process is going to require us
knowing the location of drivers we
mentioned that so how do we know the
location of drivers well we're going to
have to have some additional endpoint
here maybe it's a location endpoint
update that drivers call every n seconds
with their lat launch to let us know
where they are um so that's going to be
important and note a lot of candidates
miss this up front in the API section
that's totally fine there's no
expectation that you get every single
API right out of the gate as you're
designing you might find more and you'll
come back and you'll add to this list
that's totally great of course I've done
this so many times I have the the
foresight that you might not have in an
interview um so I'm going to add it here
immediately but just know this is kind
of a a moving model that can be updated
as you go and so now we've satisfied the
second functional requirement the third
one is the driver should be able to
accept or deny a request and then also
navigate to pick up and drop off so to
be able to accept or deny a request
Quest we're going to go back to our ride
API this is going to be driver excepts
and they'll pass in that right ID as
well as maybe true FAL or uh yeah you
know true false if they accept or deny
it respectively so given this right ID
do I accept or deny matching and again I
chose patch here because we're going to
be updating that same row realistically
this could also be a post because it
probably will need to create a new row
on the status or maybe up a different
status um we could come back and change
that but I think patch is going to be
fine for now and then the last thing is
that drivers are going to be navigating
first to the pickup location and then
next to the destination they need to be
able to update us you know tell us that
I've gotten to the Des I've gotone to
the uh initial pickup location it's time
for me to go to the destination so I'm
going to create an endpoint for that
it's going to be called ride driver uh
it's going to be update and what it's
going to take is of course that right Ed
again
and then you know some status and maybe
this status is going to be picked up
or you know dropped off doesn't matter
something like that and what it's going
to maybe return is the lat laun of the
next place that they need to go or null
if if if not relevant so in the case if
they pick them up from a destination
then we'll update that in the database
and we'll send them cool or from a
pickup location excuse me here's the lat
laune of the destination you need to
navigate to on the other hand if they
tell us that they dropped off a
candidate then we'll just give them a
200 return null here uh there's nowhere
further for them to go great so this is
a complete set of our apis they use our
core entities um in order to satisfy our
functional requirements a couple things
that I'll I'll note quickly beyond the
fact that you can come back and amend
these as I already mentioned people may
may be noticing that I I don't put any
data types here and why is that now if
you're a mid-level candidate or a junior
candidate go ahead you can put data
types that's fine senior candidates
please don't I find that this is a
massive waste of time um I see
candidates sitting here doing things
like this typing out number and number
and uh it's borderline insulting to the
interviewer maybe I'm being too flippant
in saying that but like it's inferred
you're a senior candidate you're a
senior plus candidate we know that you
know that a latitude is a number we know
that you know that a right ID is either
a string or a number respectively we
know that accepting is a Boolean like we
know these basic types so unless you're
going to introduce something unique like
I did here in the case of an enum then
maybe it's worth spelling it out but
otherwise your interviewer is smart
they're following they've done this
plenty of times save yourself the time
again 35 minutes it's going to go
quick um the other thing to mention is
that you'll notice maybe that I don't
put like user ID in any of these
requests so for example driver accept
well how do we know which driver sent
this and so we're going to get this off
of the session or the JWT that's in the
request header
this is important for security reasons I
suggest you don't put something like
user ID here unless you're explicit with
your interviewer that you don't actually
mean that you're putting this in the
body but it's in the header instead um
because if we did put it in the body
then any user could say request a ride
on another user's behalf by just making
this request with the other user ID's
user or with the other user user ID in
the request body so good API security
we're going to use either JW JWT tokens
um or or session tokens and they're
going to be in the request header this
is something that I would speak to
during the interview maybe I would write
it as a bullet but not
necessary awesome all right so we got
our core entities and our API down let's
keep moving now for the fun
stuff all right we've later relased
strong Foundation we've gone over our
requirements the core entities and the
API at this point ideally you're about
15 minutes into the interview if you're
a mid-level candidate maybe it's taking
you a little longer than that 15 to 20
if you're a senior staff candidate
ideally 15 maybe even a little bit less
and this gives you plenty of time now to
go into the high level design which
we'll do now while leaving room at the
end for deep Dives so we're going to
continue on this theme of each section
relying on the one before it so for the
highle design the goal as we mentioned
is to be able to satisfy our core
functional requirements or the features
of the system and the way that we're
going to do that is we're just going to
go one by one through our apis and use
them as the input flow of data in order
to design a system that satisfies each
of them and if we satisfy our apis then
we've satisfied our functional
requirements because of course we built
our apis based on our functional
requirements so hopefully that makes
sense um let's start then right away
with our first API endpoint the first
API endpoint again is post rare estimate
which takes in a source and a
destination and returns to the user an
estimate as well as an ETA for a
particular ride request so what do we
need in order to make that a reality
well the first thing that we're going to
need is a client and we're going to have
a client for a driver and so this can be
an IOS app this could be an Android app
we won't support web and
so this driver oh excuse me I've said
driver here I mean
writer so this writer is going to make a
request and that request is first going
to hit
are uh
AWS managed API
Gateway and so this guy is going to be
responsible for a couple of things it's
going to be responsible for load
balancing it's going to be responsible
for routing this is the thing that it's
kind of most important it's going to
take each incoming API request and it's
going to Route it to the correct micros
service and then I can also do some
additional auxiliary things like
authentication SSL
termination um uh what else can it do
rate limiting Etc so it's nice to jot
some of these things down don't get
distracted by them you know this this
shows well for the technical Excellence
axes that that meta evaluates under and
most of the um major companies have have
something to that
effect but don't let it distract you
it's not the most important thing so
important I got an AWS API managed
Gateway here and it's going to simply be
responsible for routing to each of my
respective microservices now in the case
of this request this is going to be our
get
Fair estimate request uh we're going to
hit this ride service that we'll create
here and the ride service is going to
handle Fair
estimates and so the real Uber is going
to have some complex ml model that's
going to be responsible for getting
these estimations and in the interview
you have a couple options you could just
blackbox it and say there's going to be
some complex model here this is what
we're going to use or you can just
overly simplify I'm going to take the
route of just overly simplifying and I'm
going to overly communicate that to my
interviewer and I'm going to use a
thirdparty mapping so this could be like
Google Maps and so this is just going to
be an API call that we're going to make
here in order to find out given current
traffic what is the current ETA to get
from our source to our destination and
then we're just going to use that ETA in
order to estimate a price maybe a simple
multiplication from there so our writer
is going to make a request to get a Fair
estimate which is going to hit our ride
service which is going to use a third
party mapping service in order to
actually get that estimate and then we
need to persist that estimate in our
primary database here and so I'm just
going to label this primary database for
now for primary DB um and this is where
I had mentioned earlier that we're going
to forego on the actual data schema and
the data models until we know more
during the high Lev design and this is
the appropriate time to do that so now
we're persisting one of those right
objects and given that I'm so deep into
the flow of data I know exactly what
needs to be persisted and what should
exist on this right object so for
example I know that it's going to have
an an ID that's pretty basic I know that
it's also going to have a writer ID it's
going to have a fair that we just
estimated it's going to have an ETA it's
going to have a source it's going to
have a destination uh and then it's
going to have a status and that status
is going to you know start right now as
Fair estimated right and we'll have some
more things that we add in in a moment
and so this isn't complete there's more
things here and we're going to come back
and we're going to add to it each time
one of our arrows lands on our database
we're going to see is there another
field that should be written here um and
so then the the other thing that we'll
add since we added this writer ID we
know that we have a foreign key to some
writer object this is less interesting
uh a writer is going to have an ID and
they're going to have some metadata
probably where their location is um some
of their payment information Etc it's
not the most interesting thing for this
design so I'm just going to dot dot dot
it which is kind of a great tactic to
use to ensure that you don't get
distracted so we've satisfied our first
API endpoint just to be super explicit
about the flow of data the writer makes
a request to get that fair estimate we
calculate the estimate we persist it in
our DB with these fields super easy and
then we return back to the user the ID
the fair and the ETA
fantastic now the next API in point that
we need to satisfy is when the user got
that fair estimate and on their client
they clicked on it to say I like the
estimate I want to request a ride and
this is what starts the actual matching
process and this is what ultimately
matches them to a nearby driver based on
proximity so to handle that I'm going to
introduce an additional
microservice and this is going to be the
ride matching service and the reason I'm
using a separate service here oh ride
matching service the reason that I'm
using a separate service here is for
handful of reason reasons one the things
that these two do are incredibly
different this one's going to be more
computationally uh expensive and it's
also going to be an asynchronous process
and so by separating them I allow them
to scale independently I allow them also
to be maintained by separate teams and
that's going to be um kind of
effective uh for this current
design so now the writer is going to
make a
request so request ride it's going to
hit our matching service which is going
to be responsible of course for matching
drivers and writers and so the first
thing that this thing needs to do is it
needs to know the location of the
drivers so we're going to have some
location DB remember we had a location
entity so we're going to have some
location DB and this is going to store
the location of drivers it's going to be
just the current location of the drivers
and so we can make a request here to get
driver locations and this is probably
going to be within some radius so maybe
we say get all the drivers within one
mile two miles three miles um of the
drive Riders get all drivers within n
number of miles of the current Rider's
location the r Rider driver thing really
trips me up anyway hopefully you guys
are still following and so then this
begs the question naturally of well what
about how do we get locations in into
that database in the first place that's
where this endpoint came in right
location update this is the API endpoint
that drivers are going to call in order
to make sure that this location DB is up
to date so we'll introduce now a driver
client that driver client is going to
make periodic calls let's say every 5
Seconds now just to be easy every 5
Seconds to a location
service that is responsible for simply
updating the location
of drivers so this is going to be update
location so it's going to take a driver
location Sor in the location DB so that
the ride matching service can query it
so the ride matching service then has
the eligible drivers it's going to need
to make sure that none of those drivers
are currently in a ride or maybe offline
um so we can say get status based on
driver ID here so this guy can make a
call to this
service uh in order to query our
database here for a driver and a driver
is going to have an ID it's also going
to have some metadata like its car its
license plate their image all that sort
of stuff but importantly it's going to
have status and that status might be in
ride offline or available uh maybe
there's some additional ones too but
we'll stick with those for now so ride
matching service got all of the drivers
within close proximity and then filtered
out those that are in a status other
than available and then it starts
sending out requests to them
saying do you want to accept this ride
and the way that it's going to do that
is going to be a bit abstracted in our
design but I'm going to introduce this
notification service a notification
service itself is an interview question
um so I'm going to blackbox it for now
and this is going to use like apple push
notifications or I believe Google
Android uses Firebase am I making that
up don't quote me on that but regardless
we're going to use the native push
notifications for each of them
respectively uh Arrow now is going to be
like this and we're going to send a push
notification to the driver's device
saying do you want to accept this ride
and if they choose to accept they're
going to make an API endpoint when they
uh an API call when they click on it
they're going to be calling that driver
accept endpoint so that's going to be
this accept and it's going to take in a
Boolean it's going to hit our writing
service and then we're going to update
the status of the ride accordingly
and so one additional thing that could
be here is of course the driver ID we'll
call it optional because it doesn't
exist from the start it only exists once
there's a match and then we would update
our status
to maybe matched or in ride or whatever
it may be but something along those
lines um so that's what happens when the
driver then accepts the ride just and
then the very last thing that happens is
that the writer needs to know where to
go or excuse me the the driver needs to
know where to go and so we created an
endpoint called update for them where
they tell us that the status has
changed and we give them the next place
to be so the driver calls update it
updates their status to maybe they got
to the source they got to the
destination um any of those additional
statuses and then we optionally return
the lat La of where they need to go NP
next so if they just got to the source
then maybe their status updates to
picked up driver um and we send back the
destination okay so at this point we
have a fairly simple design it should
satisfy all of our functional
requirements and we should be able to go
back look at it and confirm that yes we
can request Fair estimates yes we can
request a ride based on an estimate and
yes drivers can accept or deny a request
and then navigate to the drop off and
pickup location now this design is
simple um and it doesn't go into detail
in a lot of places where we will need to
go into detail such as how does this
location DB work how does the ride
matching service ensure consistency such
that there's no double matching of
drivers to rides these are all things
that we're going to go into in our Deep
dive but for now we should be able to
communicate with our interviewer I have
a highle design that satisfies my
functional requirements next up I'm
going to go deep in a couple places to
satisfy my non-functional
requirements all right so our high level
design is in place we're going to jump
into those deep Dives now now if you're
a senior or staff candidate in
particular these deep Dives are really
where you're going to earn your key this
is where you're going to show off that
you have level appropriate knowledge so
if you're a mid-level candidate then
what we have on the board right now is
pretty damn close to what would be a
passing interview now it's probably not
quite enough your interviewer is going
to probe you in in some places maybe as
it pertains to the matching algorithm
and consistency or this location DB
being sped up maybe sharding and your
primary DB scaling
Etc you should be able to answer some of
these questions to the best of your
ability fairly competently um and that's
that that's probably around good enough
for a mid-level higher now for senior
that's that's certainly not the case you
would now need to go deep to satisfy
your non-functional requirements and you
should be able to go deep in a couple of
places you know aim for you know two
places or so and then for staff the
expectation is that you can go even
deeper so maybe in more places say three
places but uh the degree to which you go
deep the dep is increased and it's often
even the case with staff candidates that
you teach your interview or something
and so this isn't strictly a requirement
but it's usually a really good sign if
your interviewer walks away and it turns
out that this staff candidate had a lot
more knowledge about say Dynamo DB and
they were able to go deep in some
properties of Dynamo DB and how it
pertains to this particular system
leveraging their own personal
experiences um then that's a really
fantastic sign so we're going to show a
couple places where you could go deep
and we could show off that depth we'll
do more than is needed in frankly even a
staff interview probably um but I kind
of want to show the range of places
where candidates could go deep here so
as I mentioned in order to inform where
we go deep we come back to our
non-functional requirements and we can
really just go one by one through these
so the first thing is we need to make
sure that our system has a low latency
matching um that's great so that's going
to matter in a couple places but the
place that I want to focus in on first
is our location service because this is
kind of a really pivotal and interesting
part of our system so as it pertains to
efficiency and cost for what it's worth
we need this query on the location DB to
get near proximate drivers to be really
quick so note that and then the
additional thing along this path is that
this is going to be a lot of updates so
we need this path to be able to handle
the number of transactions per second
that we're getting from driver updates
and so that's actually where I'm going
to start is I'm going to estimate that
and we talked about in the beginning how
don't do matches for the sake of doing
math and you can do it later on in your
design when it makes sense and that's
exactly what I'm going to do here so I
know that Uber has 6 million drivers
um I'm going to estimate that maybe 3
million of those are active at any given
time for what it's worth that it's
probably an overestimate but we'll go
with it anyway and then we had mentioned
earlier that we were going to send
updates every 5 seconds so a driver will
send their location update every 5
seconds so that means that we're going
to have 600,000 updates coming into the
system every second great so whatever
database we have here as well as the
service is going to need to be able to
handle
600,000 transactions per second now
we'll talk about later later in the
interview realistically there's other
ways to to trim down on this um but
let's keep that that that higher
estimate for now
awesome so let's talk about this
location DB how can we store the
location of all of our drivers and make
it incredibly quick and efficient in
order to look up drivers that are within
some radius of them well the most kind
of obvious thing that we could do is use
some SQL database say postgress we could
have a column for lat and La
respectively and then we would just
query range query in order to determine
any drivers that are within a lat and
laun upper and lower bound and I guess
we would have an upper bound a lower
bound a left and a right bound uh
respectively so four total bounds now
this sucks for a handful of reasons the
first is that the indexes that we would
build here on Latin lar respectively are
be trees and be trees are optimized for
one-dimensional data so L LA is
inherently two-dimensional as we just
mentioned and so that's not going to be
well optimized these are going to be
slow queries non-performing queries and
also it's going to require us scanning a
large number of rows for wider queries
if we have a region of say 20 miles or
something then now we're going to have
to scan a ton of rows in order to get
this data and so that's also bad lastly
and why post Crest is just a terrible
answer here is that you know postest can
handle maybe 2 to 4K transactions per
second that certainly can change
depending on
uh you know write replicas uh optimize
Hardware but let's just estimate it's
around there and so if we do that or if
we have two to four transactions per
second then we're way off the 600k that
we need to be at so we can kind of
consider this out of the question it's a
bad option um if a candidate proposed
this I would probe deeper even if they
were mid-level it's not a great
answer so if I probe deeper and I
pointed out the limitations of that then
naturally a candidate might realize two
things one if I'm going to use postgress
then I need to be able to look up these
proximity searches much more efficiently
and then two I I need to somehow reduce
my 600k TPS to something closer to 4 TPS
and so to handle the first one you would
introduce a geospatial index and so a
geospatial index is something that makes
querying spatial data more efficient and
in this case we would use a quad tree
and for postgress specifically has an
extension called
postgis and so quad trees the way that
they work and let me maybe zoom over
here and I have a little a little
diagram that I can
show so the way that quad trees work is
that they take a map you can imagine
that this is a map of the world and they
recursively split it into four regions
so imagine this first split here and
then we make this a tree so here's our
root node this region is our our red guy
here this region green blue and orange
uh as you can see and there's some K
value in our case i' I've randomly
chosen five and this K value determines
whether or not we need to recursively
split within any given cell so in this
case we only have three
drivers in this region of the world and
so we don't need to split them further
this is less than our K value of five
same two here and same two here however
in this region you can see there's a lot
of blue dots there's a lot of drivers so
we can recursively split again into
fourths as we do here and then bang add
to our tree four additional branches and
then we take a look at each of these
respectively so this one has four we
don't need to go further three three
this one itself had four five six seven
which is greater than five so we
recursively split it again right and so
when you want a query you simply walk
down this tree and when you get to Any
Given Leaf node it should be the list of
all of the drivers within that cell so
that's how a quad tree works and that's
what uh is a really popular geospatial
index and one that um you know we can
have supported here by postgress via
postgis so that's one option there's
some pros and cons there this is going
to be linked in the bottom of the the
YouTube video so you guys can read this
on your own time as well so that's great
we've now made the uh queries a bit more
efficient that's wonderful but how do we
handle these increased transactions per
second well sort of our only option
there in this this current setup is to
add a q here and this Q would be
responsible for handling all of these
transactions coming in and then batching
them to write in batches such that we
can get the 600k down to 4K and as you
can see this would be some pretty large
batches so obvious downsides to this are
one we've introduced a significant
amount of latency such that our location
DB is now going to be mildly inaccurate
because we needed to wait until all
these locations came in into a large
enough batch for us to write them to our
database so that's not good and then
additionally when we wrote to our
database because we're using quad trees
we need to reindex this entire thing
right so we have all this new data that
comes in this tree needs to shift around
this is expensive as well it also takes
up a lot of uh space in memory so
there's some additional downsides as to
why this is an okay option but not a
great option if a mid-level candidate or
even a senior candidate landed on this
um it would be okay midle candidate
certainly passing senior I'd probably
point out some of these limitations and
then hope that they could go further for
a staff candidate uh I have no
expectation that you really have a deep
understanding of these geospatial
indexes but again I should be able to
point out the limitations you realize
them and adjust accordingly so this is
not optimized but this is an okay
answer
now there's a better answer and that
better answer is that in order to handle
these high TPS we can make this this an
inmemory data store specifically
something like redis which can handle
anywhere from 100K to if it's well
optimized a million transactions per
second in a redus cluster so that's
great that handles that issue and then
from a geospatial index perspective
redis supports something called
geohashing and so geohashing is a
different algorithm that's used to do
geospatial queries and it's very similar
to quad trees but it doesn't require the
maintenance of this addition
data structure this additional index so
the geohashing works let me paste in a
quick example here next to this
one is like this so again we split the
region into fours you can imagine this
is a map of the world we split the
region into fours and then we continue
to just recursively split the region
into fours again now we don't make any
determination based on K so it's not
density dependent we just continue to
split until we get to a Precision value
that we're happy with so in this case we
have 0 1 this cell is two if we split
this cell two again then we end up with
two 0 2 1 2 two and 2 3 respectively
this is Layer Two now we could then go
again to a layer three and maybe take
this two and this two will become two 1
or 2 two 1 two 02 203 right you get the
picture and this can continue to happen
recursively and so what you end up with
is a base 30 to encoding of this string
that looks you know something like this
and the longer the string is the more
precise the more that final layer is
zoomed into a smaller region uh the the
less long this string is the shorter the
string is the less precise of course and
you can do things like look at just the
first one character two characters three
characters and understand like the
larger region that this exists in before
you continue to zoom in so this is how
geohashing Works red is support
geohashing out of the box and so the
benefits of geohashing which are great
for this situation is that it's easy to
calculate It's relatively cheap to
calculate a geohash and it's easy to
store it's just a string and it doesn't
require any additional data structure so
when you're in an interview and you're
having to make a decision between quad
trees and geohashing which might sound
like some pretty obscure knowledge but
for what it's worth for these proximity
questions Yelp find my friends Uber this
is kind of a place where you spend a lot
of time and a lot of focus
so the question is often between quadree
or
geohash and the takeaway that I want you
to have is that quadry is great for when
you have an uneven distribution or an
uneven density of locations so something
like Yelp for example where you have a
really dense New York City but there's
nobody in the Atlantic Ocean or nobody
in the middle of Kansas whatever then
it's fantastic um but it's also required
that you don't have a high frequency of
updates because we don't want to reindex
that tree on every single update it's
expensive and geohashing on the other
hand is indiscriminate as it pertains to
density the world is split into evenly
precise boxes um so less good when you
have an uneven distribution um or or or
an uneven distribution of densities of
locations but really good when you have
a high frequency of RS so in this case
despite the fact that our Uber drivers
locations would have an uneven density
because we have such a high frequency of
writs it makes geohashing the optimal
answer and so that's what we're going to
end up going with here is redis and
geohashing and it's worth noting there
are a couple other geospatial um kind of
algorithms indexing strategies that
exist Uber actually uses something close
to geohashing but instead of it being
squares they're hexagons uh I believe
hexagons maybe octagons and this solves
the problem that the distance from the
middle of a square to the outside of a
square is not the same as to one of its
edges so sort made it more circular in
that way I think this was built inhouse
at Uber um so a couple options that
exist but these are the two main ones
the two main ones if you know these two
in an interview you're totally set if
you can weigh the trade-offs between
them just at the depth that I just
described you're in a really good Set uh
spot so now we've solved our problem if
we don't need a q anymore a q here would
be over engineering we can easily handle
the number of transactions per second
into our reddis cluster using geohashing
to then do these proximity
searches awesome hopefully that makes
sense um okay and then the the other
thing that I want to mention before we
move away from location is that your
interviewer might ask 600k transactions
per second is really high how can we
make that smaller do we need to overload
our system like that in the first place
and this is a great question we don't
have to there's no reason for us to a do
it every 5 Seconds we could make some
product trade-offs on accuracy and say
it's every 10 15 20 seconds even up to a
minute um but a more sophisticated
answer would be that we could do this
dynamically on the client so the client
could take in um some information and be
adaptive or send adaptive location
updates based on things like the status
is the driver currently accepting rides
are they not if they're not then of
course we don't need another location
the speed are they parked have they been
parked for 20 minutes if so their
location isn't changing there's no
reason for us to send updates the
proximity to ride requests or hot a
areas if they're out in the boonies then
maybe we don't need to send their
location as frequently because we don't
need as high of precision so we can put
this logic we can put this logic here on
the driver and call this Dynamic
location updates and this is going to
make sure that this TPS goes way down
I'd still stick with the setup that we
have here um but you know maybe we now
got the 600k down to 100K or maybe even
something smaller all right so that
should cover that deep dive uh
specifically low latency matching under
1 minutes and optimizing for our
location service and our location
DB the next one that we can look into
then is consistency of matching so this
is where we want to make sure that no
driver is assigned more than one ride at
a time and no ride is matched to more
than one driver so there's two things
that we need to consider here let me
kind of paste those in to save the
typing so for consistency of matching we
can't send more than one request at a
time for a given ride and we don't send
any d driver more than one request at a
time so we're going to handle these two
separately so when our ride matching
service we're going to get that list of
drivers and so we have a list of drivers
list of eligible drivers maybe it's the
top 10 drivers or so and the way that we
can handle this first one making sure
that that ride doesn't send out to more
than one driver at a time is really easy
this can just be logic within our ride
match service so we can simply have a a
wow Loop here that says while we still
don't have an accepting driver go to the
next one send him a request wait our 10
seconds and then if we still haven't
matched go to the next one send the send
the request Etc and this is because a
single ride instance ride matched
instance is only being handled or a
single ride that needs matching excuse
me is only being handled by a single one
of these ride matching service instances
right a single server here so we can
have that logic within that server and
it satisfies one pretty simply I'll kind
of paste in some pseudo code in a moment
that hopefully will make that even even
more clear because I Fe my description
there wasn't as clear as it could have
been but one is the easy one two is the
hard one and two is the hard one because
you need to remember that we have
multiple of these right so in each of
these cases our servers are are
horizontally scaled and
so you know we have we have multiple
instances of this ride matching service
and what you could imagine happening is
that people just got out of a concert
and the closest driver is the same for a
lot of people and those ride requests
got matched on different servers here
and so each of these different servers
said give me who is the closest and in
each case it returned a list that maybe
looks like driver 1 and then driver two
and so each of these instances each of
these ride requests sent a notification
to driver 1 and in the case of a Taylor
Swift concert there's 100,000 people or
whatever then driver one is sitting
there and their phone just went d d they
got 100 requests all at once that's
obviously bad we don't want that to
happen so given that we have these
multiple instances there's nothing that
we can do on a single box because we
need coordination between the the N
number of instances here they need to
all see a similar state that a given
driver is currently occupied okay so
what we could do is we could update a
status here we already had a status
field in our driver and so we can have
an additional status maybe that says um
you know request sent something like
this and so when we get to driver one in
our list we would update this status and
then send them the notification such
that any other instance here that wants
to send to driver one they first need to
look in our database and see was that
request sent this of course would need
to be Atomic um but we would check that
and then if the request was already we
would move on maybe to Driver 2 because
we know the driver 1 was already
occupied so this is very similar to to
Ticket Master actually and how we handle
no double booking for anybody who
watched that YouTube video uh if you
haven't go check it out but very similar
idea here and if you watch that YouTube
video then you see the issue with this
approach as well and that's that we only
want to send these requests for a
certain period of time we only want to
request to be outstanding for say 10
seconds maybe 5 Seconds a driver has 5
Seconds to accept it and if You' in an
Uber you've probably seen this on their
app they have a popup that comes on
their app it has some loading bar that's
loading quickly about 5 seconds and they
have to click that button before that 5
seconds or else we're going to go send
that ride request to to somebody else so
in this case if we set this to request
sent and the driver doesn't respond they
don't accept or deny they're just
currently driving they're not touching
their phone whatever it may be then this
status is stuck it's stuck as request
sent and for an indefinite period of
time now nobody else can send a request
to driver 1 because they're stuck in
this status so we need some way to
update this status and so one thing that
many candidates think of is that they
want to do something like this they want
to introduce some Cron job which runs
every you know n seconds or minutes and
it looks for drivers that have a request
sent and then we would need to have a
status update time and so we would
basically do a query on this driver
table to find anybody who's in a request
sent status and to see if it's been 10
seconds since that status was updated
and if it was update this back to
available and so this works like this
would absolutely work but the issue with
this just like with Ticket Master and
maybe even worse in this case is that
you're introducing some Delta n from the
time that a driver should have become
available to the time that the crown job
run so if the crown job runs every
minute and our Delta here is 5 Seconds
right we only want a driver to be locked
for 5 seconds then and it could take up
to 55 seconds before we actually unlock
you when you should have been available
to accept rides this isn't optimal and
in a case where things are really busy
we want to make sure that we can match
you to the optimal driver to ensure that
users have the best experience possible
so this is an option it's an option
that's great for a mid-level candidate
it may even be passing for senior
depending on how well you do in other
areas of the design um but I would ask
follow-up questions it's probably not
good enough for staff I would hope that
a staff candidate identif identifies the
limitations here um but it is one option
A better option just like with Ticket
Master is to actually not do that and
instead use a distributed lock so this
could be reddis we could use the same
instance here I'll actually even talk
about in a moment how it could be in the
primary database but just I want to make
this clear by having it separate for now
and so we can have a rice instance here
which when we want to lock a driver all
that we do is we set
driver ID with some value maybe true and
then it's going to have a TTL of 5
Seconds excuse me
true so this is just the key value pair
so we put in reddis which is going to be
a distributed lock in this way we're
going to use this distributed lock to
say this driver is currently locked so
we'll add him to reddis add driver ID to
redus the value doesn't matter I put it
as true who cares
we're going to set this as driver uh
driver ID and we're going to set a TTL
of 5 Seconds so in 5 seconds that entry
is going to be automatically removed
from the cach and so now what's going to
happen is that anybody trying to send a
request to a driver first needs to look
to see if it's locked so they'll check
here this is going to be really quick
it's basically just a hashmap they're
going to look up that driver ID they're
going to see does the driver ID exist in
my lock if it does I got to go to the
next one he's currently locked uh but if
the driver doesn't respond now this row
is automatically removed and the next
person who reads this won't see driver
ID here and they can make a request to
the driver ID so this is fantastic it's
a distributed lock very similar to what
we did in Ticket Master it ends up
working such that all of our ride
matching Services have a consistent
global view of which drivers are
available to send requests to um and
it's w wicked fast Snappy great Etc now
you might point out I have two
reticences now why don't I just put this
stuff here as well you totally could do
that another thing that you might want
to do which might even be smarter is
that this could be something like Dynamo
DB which I think would be a good choice
here there's not a ton of relations High
availability is important we can scale
this largely indefinitely and then we
can introduce another table which would
be a driver lock and this would just
have the driver ID and you can set in
Dynamo DB ttls on rows on tables so
could end up doing something like that
now you don't need a separate why is my
text so much bigger you don't need a a
separate lock here or a separate a redus
instance to manage you just use the same
database good consolidation no need to
introduce an additional technology um
but we'll use this as the lock so that's
how we're going to handle the
consistency of matching and then just to
make sure that this is Crystal Clear I
want to paste in here kind of what this
would look like so within this ride
matching service you would say while we
don't have a match then the driver is
going to be the next driver from a list
that we got from our location DB we're
going to lock that driver by updating
the driver lock in our database and then
we're going to send a notification to
that driver to say would you like to
accept that ride and then we're going to
wait our 10 seconds and so that driver
might accept they might deny it's going
to come through this path update it's
going to update our primary database and
their status is going to update to in
ride and so at this point then no match
should be false because there is a match
they already in ride this is ended
everything is good here um and then of
course we'll we'll have some way to
notify the user either by a notification
pulling or otherwise but I'm not going
to go into a tremendous amount of detail
there great so those are those are
certainly the two most important uh deep
Dives for this interview but let's let's
continue to make sure that we round this
out I recognize that the video is
getting a little long as well the next
one I want to talk about is handling
High throughput surges for popular
events so this one's relatively
straightforward but what we want to do
is make sure that we can scale we can
scale dynamically in order to meet that
demand so if we had only n instances
here and then all of a sudden we had all
of these people who want to ride then
maybe it's too much to be handled by
these instances that we currently have
and we can't horizontally scale them
dynamically quickly enough and so
naturally the solution to something like
that let's see if I can fit this
elegantly into our diagram is to
introduce a
Q and so we can have a Q here this is
going to be our ride request Q
ride
request Q apologies that this is a bit
tighter than I would like it to be okay
so we have our ride request queue here
and when rides come in they're going to
sit on this que and then our ride
matching service is going to pull off of
this queue in order to uh match drivers
to riders for a given ride so if we have
a huge surge no problem we'll be able to
handle that it'll all wait in our Q here
and we'll just pull off when our ready
our Q is is likely going to be
partitioned by regions so one issue that
you run into with this Q is that if it's
simply a fifo Q then you might have
somebody who is uh the request came in
first but it's a much harder request to
match maybe it's out in the boonies
there are no drivers around whatever it
may be and then you could have some
people who are stuck behind the queue
here not getting matched despite the
fact that they're in the middle of New
York City and there's drivers everywhere
or something like this right so that's
not optimal uh a couple things that that
that we could do for that is that we
partition this queue based on location
or based on regions So within New York
City you would have kind of more fined
grained regions even more fine Grandin
probably than the Burrows but you would
partition your queue on this in this way
uh you don't have that problem where
somebody ends up sitting behind a
request that's taking a longer time to
match and then additionally the added
benefit here is that if any of these
ride matching Services go down and
remember these are pretty
computationally expensive like uh
they're waiting these 10 seconds they're
they're taking a long period of time and
so any of them could go down in that
minute that we're trying to find a match
and if that happens no problem we'll
just pull it off the ride request queue
again it won't have been acknowledged as
succeeded and then we'll continue to to
match that user so this works pretty
nicely so the ride request queue
hopefully it's relatively
straightforward I won't go into a
tremendous amount of detail but that's
how we're going to handle these these
high surges High availability outside of
matching so this is where our system uh
you know it's kind of the the
traditional answer we can horizontally
scale each of these these will have
their own load balancers this was Dynamo
DB so largely it scales indefinitely we
talked about the scaling here from
reddish so that's great the last thing
is that um we can we can split these by
region so realistically we're not going
to have a single instance of this full
setup like maybe this is the Northeast
region that you're looking at here and
then we're going to have a copy and
paste of this entire thing out in
California for you know the southwest
region saying with up in Seattle for the
northwest region these will be located
in different data centers um now there's
probably things like users who can
travel of course you could go from New
York to California which will'll have in
every data center maybe just a a read
replica or a copy in the primary
database of Any Given uh user table but
that's an additional way that we can
increase availability reduce the strain
on the system uh make things like the Q
partitioning more streamlined and
obvious
um by splitting by region
here all right I think that's just about
wraps it up congratulations if you got
all the way through it apologies this
video ended up being a little bit longer
than I intended um of course as I
mentioned I went into more detail here
than would be required in an interview
so I don't want anyone to feel
overwhelmed um just to be crystal clear
here mid-level candidate if you got that
highle design and you were able to
answer questions from your interviewer
about some of the deep Dives you're
doing great senior candidates I hope
that you could have gone deep in at
least a couple of these places the
location service and ride matching even
if you didn't land on optimal with uh
you know the the the distributed lock
with TTL but you landed on the Cron job
or you suggested the queue here um with
postgis and quad trees even if you
didn't know the geospatial index
probably great very likely very likely a
higher and then staff candidates we do
have that higher bar expect that you
were able to show more depth in places
but maybe it wasn't the places I went
deep maybe it's places that that you
understand even better than I do and
that would be great as well so don't
feel overwhelmed but I wanted this to be
relatively comprehensive so that you
feel well equipped when you go into your
interview all right with that said
thanks everybody for watching if you
have questions comments concerns
anything I did stupid that you want to
call out please put them in the comments
I'll be checking those out and
responding frequently um this was the
second of these that we've done again
check out Ticket Master if you haven't
seen that one yet and I'll try to do
another one here in the coming handful
of weeks all right thanks everybody for
watching and best of luck with your
upcoming interviews take care